(groans) I'm
Faith.
Previously
on Buffy the Vampire
Slayer...
Open your
present.
This is a thing
of beauty, boss.
That look on your face
is my reward.
GILES: We have a rogue slayer
on our hands.
I can't think
of anything more dangerous.
(grunting)
(groans)
DOCTOR: It's a wonder
she's alive at all
with the blood loss.
There's almost no chance that
she's ever gonna
regain consciousness.
RILEY:
You're really strong.
I like it.
I've worked too long--
too long--
to let some little bitch
threaten this project.
Did Maggie Walsh set you up?
BUFFY: Maggie wanted me dead,
didn't she?
(gasps)
(screams) Adam?
Mommy.
Why does it bug you so much
that I'm hanging with her?
It bugs me that she's using you
to infiltrate our operation.
You saying she's a spy?
(shivering)
I don't know which team I'm on,
who the bad guys are.
(grunting)
Escort them out.
Buffy.
They smell good, don't they?
What?
Clean sheets.
Like Summer.
I wouldn't know.
Right.
I forgot.
I noticed.
I-I wish I could stay, but...
Oh, you have to go.
It's just with...
Little sis coming. I know.
So much to do
before she gets here.
Now I really have to...
So go.
Don't let me keep...
Damn.
Just when we made it so nice.
Are you ever gonna take
this thing out?
(monitor beeping)
(indistinct P.A. announcements)
(wolf howling)
*
So, here it is.
The latest in
state-of-the-art
combat
technology.
I gotta say, it doesn't look
that complicated.
So can you
repair it?
Sure. Just as soon as I get
my master's
degree
in advanced
starship technology.
Well, why
don't
we experiment?
Press some
buttons,
see what happens.
Well, I'd like to veto that.
Second.
It's called a blaster, Will.
A word that tends
to discourage
experimentation.
Now, if it were called
the Orgasminator,
I'd be the first to try your
basic button-press approach.
Just tell me,
can you repair it or not?
I'm working on
it,
it.
If I blow a hole
in my mom's azalea patch,
the neighbors
will not be pleased.
You all right?
You've been patrolling
around the clock
for three days straight.
Perhaps you
could use some--
What, some rest?
There's a demonoid killing
machine out there, Giles.
It doesn't only work
the night shift.
I was going to
say
perhaps you could
use some backup, but, um...
Now you mention it...
Gathering your strength
might not be a bad idea.
Just get the blaster working.
That's all
the strength I need.
Are you sure?
Why, because ray guns aren't
in the slayer
handbook?
Will, you haven't seen
this Adam thing.
He's the Terminator
without
the bashful charm.
I mean, he's deadly,
and the last time we met,
he kicked my ass.
Oh, no. Blast away,
by all means.
I only meant...
No word about Riley?
They keep telling me
that he's fine.
That's all they'll
say.
Maybe they're
telling the truth.
Maybe.
I don't even know
what the Initiative's
version of fine is.
They could be forcing him
back
onto medication
or torturing him
for all I know.
From what we've seen,
I doubt they'll
be trying to hurt him.
The only thing
that I know for
certain
is that my boyfriend
is locked away,
and I'm not helping.
Maybe Giles has a point.
I mean,
Riley is their Top Gun guy.
It doesn't make sense
that they'd hurt him.
But the
Initiative
has all of those brainwashy,
behavior modification guys.
So?
So what happens
when they start
not liking his behavior?
(groans)
Stand down, soldier.
Stand down before
I put you down.
You heard the
man.
At ease.
The shish kebab
that walks like a man.
Looks like you're
feeling better,
walking around
threatening people and all that.
Man was in my way.
I got places to
be.
Really? And where were you
thinking of going?
You know where
I'm going.
(scoffs)
Don't even tell me
you're headed for that
girlfriend of yours.
Look at you.
One good conjugal visit,
and you're back
in intensive care to stay.
You wouldn't
understand
How about you
explain it to me, then?
We all friends here, fellas?
Absolutely.
Riley here is
about to explain
why he's leaving us
so very quickly.
I don't explain,
because I don't have to.
I'm the one in charge.
Things change.
Do they?
Hey, in case you failed to
notice, we're in a world of hurt
around here. Now's the time
for us to band together,
not go flying off
our separate
ways.
Forrest has a point, Ri.
We have a problem,
we deal with that problem.
You know the most important part
of the equation now
is that we keep said problem
within the family.
Family?
Is that what we are?
Step aside.
(steady beeping)
(thunder
rumbling)
(birds chirping)
FAITH:
You think it's gonna rain?
Nonsense. It's
a beautiful day.
Now eat your sandwich.
I don't know.
It's just...
It always seems like it starts
raining right about now.
You're too young
and too pretty a girl
to start wearing worry lines
on your face.
Oh, hey, hey,
hey.
Hey there, little fella.
(chuckles)
I don't know
where you belong,
but it's not
here with us.
(chuckles)
There you go.
You see, there's nothing
gonna spoil
our
time together.
Who wants cheesecake?
(chuckles
No!
(grunting)
I told you I had things to
do.
(thunder
rumbling)
(panting)
(crickets chirping)
Spread out?
Not too far.
So not a problem.
I've never seen anything
like that.
And I can go
a long, healthy stretch
without seeing anything
like that again.
It had to be Adam
who killed it. But why?
He's studying biology.
Human, demon,
whatever he can get his hands on
and tear apart.
Learning what makes things work.
XANDER:
I really don't want
to be around
for the final exam.
It's not
coming
to that.
The Initiative created
this thing,
and they can't stop it.
But we will.
XANDER:
Question,
will hiding in a cabin
with stockpiled chocolate goods
be any part of this plan?
No.
Told you.
What's first?
Riley. I'm not
leaving him down there
with the people
that created this thing.
I don't care how
many guns they have.
I'm going in.
Okay,
Will, I need you to hack into
the security mainframe
and buy me a ten-minute shutdown
of operation systems.
That could be...
Tricky
not impossible.
If you can't do it online,
then use magic. Xander,
any gear you've been
saving for a rainy
day,
I want you to
give to
me.
You want stealthy stuff?
No, we tried sneaking in.
This time I'm gonna use
force.
I figure I'll go
in
through the elevator shaft
and use
the
cable as towlines,
then blast open
the facility
doors
and find the
infirmary.
Am I really worth all that?
Riley.
Oh.
Oh!
God, I'm
sorry.
Did I hurt
you?
No. A giant skewer
through the rib cage hurt me.
That was just a reminder.
How did you get out?
I walked.
WILLOW:
They didn't try
to stop you?
Oh, they did. Repeatedly.
But, uh, then I told them
they couldn't keep me
without a major ass-kicking,
one way or another.
Here I am.
That's great, Riley.
And, you know, there's no polite
way to ask you this, but, uh,
did they put a chip
in your brain?
Beg your pardon?
BUFFY:
Forget it.
We're just happy
to have you back.
WILLOW:
Yeah, we were
pretty worried
about you there
for a while, mister.
Me, too.
Hey, look, I know my behavior
was... pretty out there.
Forget it.
Tell you what,
you two crazy kids take down
an unstoppable, killer
cyber-demon... hybrid thingy,
and, uh, we'll call it
all even.
Taking down Adam's
gonna be tough.
There's no way to predict
what he'll throw at us.
You're here.
Whatever comes, we can
handle.
(panting)
(steady beeping)
(grunting)
(thunder
rumbling)
*
(thunder
rumbling)
(grunting)
(lightning crashing)
(shouting)
(steady beeping)
(woman speaking indistinctly
over P.A.)
Ouch.
(woman speaking indistinctly
over P.A.)
Excuse me.
You know how to get
to Third Floor West from
here?
Uh, uh...
what?
I see.
Um, you need some help
or something?
Graduation.
What?
I got to get to Sunnydale
High School graduation now.
Well, you can't.
I mean, Sunnydale High School
isn't even there anymore.
What day is it?
Friday.
What date?
The date.
February 25.
What year?
Maybe I should get you
a nurse.
What happened to the school?
Don't you just want to...
Just..
tell me.
Well,
it was a tragedy,
really.
Lots of students died,
the principal, the mayor.
I really think maybe
I should get you some help.
(siren wailing in distance)
BUFFY:
You know, I never stopped
thinking about you.
Me neither.
All I had in there was...
this one little part of you.
It's just the scarf part of me,
really.
I'm serious.
Just... knowing
you were out there,
that you
cared...
Think we're being watched?
I don't know.
Does the Initiative do that?
Maybe.
You seem a little...
somewhere else.
Is there anything I can do?
(grunts)
Give me an order.
That's what I do,
isn't it? Follow orders?
You don't have to.
Don't
I?
All my life, that's
what I've been groomed to do.
They say jump, I ask how
high.
I get the job done.
Just don't know
if it's the right job
anymore.
I know how you feel.
Giles used to be part
of this council.
And for years, all they ever did
was give me orders.
Ever obey them?
Sure.
The ones I was going to do,
anyway.
The point is,
I quit the council.
And I was scared.
But it's okay
now.
No, see, that's where
you and I are different.
I just suck
at the whole gray area thing.
It's a choice.
You can go back in there and...
maybe make some changes
from the inside.
Or you-you can quit the team,
fight demons
in your own way.
You make it sound so simple.
I don't even know
what my way is.
Well, it's time to find out.
I'm a soldier.
Take that away, what's left?
A good man.
What are you doing?
I... am looking for
brainwashy chips in your head.
(chuckles
Finding any?
Mm, not sure.
But I should probably
keep looking, just in case.
You've been strong
long enough, Riley Finn.
I'm gonna help you.
And we're gonna find
this demon,
and we're gonna
kill it together.
And in the meantime, you are
gonna stop torturing yourself.
You sure about that?
It's an order.
So what do you mean
she just wasn't there?
I don't know. I came to check
the monitors like I always do
at 8:00.
8:00 is my shift.
I got here on time...
You found the bed
in this
condition?
Haven't touched
a thing.
Get the duty rosters
and check the log. I want
to know exactly what
happened.
Coma patients do not just
get up and walk away.
We are checking
every room
on every floor.
Walk me through this
one more time.
You knew this woman was
wanted
for questioning
in a series of murders.
There's no security
on this wing?
You don't understand.
There's no way
that girl was gonna wake up.
ORDERLY:
Doctor
This can't be happening.
Did you find her?
Another woman,
unconscious and badly beaten.
And she's been stripped.
It's happened. Send the team.
*
(indistinct chatter)
LITTLE GIRL:
Dad, come on.
We're gonna be late.
*
(crickets chirping)
GILES:
The puzzle,
it seems to me,
is why Adam has stayed
dormant
as long as he
has.
WILLOW:
When he's not making
performance art out
of other demons, that is.
RILEY:
He's probably working
off an autonomic
power source.
And because he's straight
out of the box, he needs
to charge up a while.
BUFFY:
Okay, what's
he
charging up for?
XANDER:
Based on the clues, I'll go
with killing spree.
And that's a best-case scenario.
I suppose
a little firepower
would be a good idea
right now.
(whirring)
Hey.
How'd you do that?
Is there,
like,
an on-off button
somewhere in
here?
Blasters are easy.
Adam won't be.
WILLOW: Since
Professor
Walsh designed it,
any chance she left instructions
lying around
somewhere?
BUFFY:
Well, if she did, they're
gonna be in the
Initiative.
Which we can't get into
without
mounting a major
offensive.
Speak for yourself.
I'm just saying.
I must admit, a man on
the inside would be...
A really good idea.
Are you sure you want to
be double agent guy?
Well, I'm not exactly sure
what you'd call me, but...
I will share information.
It's the least I can do.
XANDER:
Riley's right.
It is the least he can do.
(phone ringing)
Hello?
Yes, she is.
Um, it's for you.
BUFFY:
Hello?
Speaking.
What sort of emergency?
Um... no, I haven't.
Thank you. I'll-I'll
let you know.
What is it?
It's Faith.
She's awake.
She beat someone up,
took her clothing, and
disappeared out of the hospital.
No one knows where she is.
I'd say this qualifies for
a Worst Timing Ever award.
WILLOW:
What do we do?
Well, we have to find her.
What about Adam?
I'd hate to see the
pursuit
of a homicidal lunatic
get in the way of pursuing
a homicidal lunatic.
Well, Faith's
not exactly Low-Profile Girl.
I'll patrol and wait for her
to make a move.
Then what?
Oh, I have an idea.
Beat the crap out
of her.
Good plan.
Good on paper
but we still have
a decision to
make.
Do we hand her over to the cops?
They wouldn't
know
what to do with a slayer,
even if they knew we existed.
What about the council?
Been there,
tried that.
Not unlike smothering a
forest
fire with napalm, as I
recall.
Well, the Initiative,
they do have, uh,
containment facilities.
XANDER:
One word--
"evil."
There's no way around it.
Faith is back,
and whether I like it or not...
she's my responsibility.
WILLOW:
Yeah. Too bad.
That was
the funnest coma ever.
We have no idea where she is.
We don't know what she's
thinking, what she's feeling.
Who she's doing.
She could be
terrified.
Maybe she doesn't even remember.
Or-or maybe she does
and-and she's sorry
and she's alone,
hiding somewhere.
Uh, perhaps
there's
some form of, uh,
rehabilitation we just
haven't thought about.
And if not,
ass-kicking makes
a solid plan "B."
I'm not gonna rule it out.
First thing--
we need to find her.
Then we can take it from there.
Who's Faith?
What did you tell him?
The truth--
that she's my
wacky
identical cousin from England
and whenever she
visits, hijinks ensue.
It's good you guys have
such an honest relationship.
No, I told him the story.
I vagued-up a few bits
but no flat-out lies.
That's fair. How'd you handle
the Angel-y
parts?
I did some editing.
It's not that I'm trying
to hide anything from Riley.
It's... just that
that's a longer conversation,
and I had a Faith hunt to do.
Any luck?
Couldn't find her. Don't
know exactly where to place that
in the luck continuum.
At least you're not alone
on this.
I'll bet every cop in Sunnydale
is out there looking for her
right now.
Pressure's definitely
high. I'll tell you,
if I were her, I'd get out
of Dodge post-hasty.
You're not me.
So, check you out, B.
Nice.
The "big girl on campus" thing's
really working for
you.
I've been looking for you.
I've been standing
still for eight months, B.
How hard you
look?
Are you all
right?
Five by five.
That's the thing about a coma--
you wake up all rested
and
rejuvenated
and ready for payback.
So much for pleasantries,
huh?
What'd you think,
I'd wake up and we'd go for tea?
You tried to gut me, Blondie.
You'd have done
the same to me
if you'd had the chance.
So let's have another go at it,
see who lands on top.
It doesn't have to be like this,
you know.
Actually, I think it has
to be exactly like this.
Faith,
these are innocent people.
No such animal.
I guess it was
too much to hope
that you'd use your downtime
to reflect and grow.
Could say the
same about
you.
I mean, you're still the same
old "better than thou" Buffy.
I mean, I knew it somehow.
I kept having this dream.
I'm not sure what it
means, but in the dream,
this
self-righteous
blonde chick stabs me.
And you want to know why?
You had it
coming.
FAITH:
That's one interpretation.
But in my dream,
she does it for a guy.
Try it, Red,
and you lose an arm.
I wake up
to find out that
this blonde chick
isn't even dating the guy she
was so nuts about before.
I mean, she's moved on
to the first college
beefstick she meets.
And not only has she forgotten
about the love of her
life,
she's forgotten
all about the chick
she nearly killed for him.
So that's my dream.
That and some stuff
about cigars and a tunnel.
But, uh, tell me,
college girl,
what does it
mean?
To me?
Mostly, that you still mouth off
about things
you don't understand.
(siren wailing)
Uh-oh.
I guess somebody
knows you're here.
(grunting)
(tires
screeching)
(grunting)
Break it
up!
You took my life, B.
Payback's a
bitch.
Look who's talking.
See ya around.
(grunts)
(shouts)
(indistinct chatter)
WILLOW:
Thanks for coming with.
Hunting for a
psychopathic super-bitch
is definitely in the
above and beyond category.
It's okay, really.
So, um, what do we do
if we find her?
Run. Flee.
Maybe skedaddle.
We're not here to engage.
This is strictly
recon.
(chuckles)
What?
You said "recon."
You're, like,
cool monster-fighter.
Well,
technically,
Faith isn't a monster.
And as far as fighting,
I'd be lucky
to bruise her fist with my face.
Oh.
What?
Face punching.
I'm not so good
with the whole...
Swimming?
Violence.
(chuckles)
Don't worry. We're
sure
to spot Faith first.
She's like this cleavage-y
slut-bomb walking around
going, "Oh, check me out.
I'm wicked cool.
I'm five by
five."
"Five by five"?
Five what by five what?
See, that's the thing.
No one knows.
Buffy can handle
Faith,
and you're plenty
safe with me.
So, um, we recon
till nightfall?
Then the
ritual
hiding begins.
Oh.
The point being,
I could be the target here.
Faith finds Mr. Xander Harris
still in town,
odds are she goes tighter
than catgut.
Got a lot
of pent-up feelings there.
I'm only sayin'.
Yes, I'm sure.
See, I can't be held responsible
for the effect I have on women.
No.
See, Faith and I have
this little thing
between us called history.
(clattering)
(whirring
Spike.
What are you doing here?
Me? Hey, I'm not the one out
of place here.
For your information, smarty,
we've got a rogue slayer
on our hands. Real
psycho killer,
too.
Sounds serious.
GILES:
It is.
What do you know?
What do you need?
Her-- dark hair,
yea tall, name of Faith,
criminally insane.
Have you seen her?
Is this bird
after you?
In a bad way.
Yeah.
Tell you what I'll do then.
I'll head out, find this
girl,
tell her exactly where all
of you are, and then watch
as she kills you.
(sighs)
Can't any one of
your damned little Scooby
club
at least try to remember
that I hate you all?
Just because I can't do
the damage myself
doesn't stop me
from
aiming a loose cannon your way.
And here I
thought
the evening would be dull.
Go ahead!
You wouldn't
even recognize her.
Dark hair, this tall,
name of Faith,
criminally
insane.
I like
this
girl already.
We're dumb.
(helicopter blades whirring)
*
(indistinct chatter)
(indistinct police transmission)
MALE VOICE:
Faith.
A friend sent me.
I got a little remembrance
from him.
(grunting)
(VCR clicking)
WILKINS:
Hello, Faith.
If you're watching this tape,
it can only mean one thing,
I'm dead
and our noble campaign to bring
order to the town of
Sunnydale
has failed,
utterly and completely.
But on the other hand,
heck, maybe we won.
(laughs)
And right now
I'm on some jumbo monitor
in the Richard Wilkins Museum
surrounded by a bunch of kids
sitting Indian-style
and looking up at my face,
filled with fear and wonder.
(chuckles)
Hi, kids.
(laughs)
But the realist in me
tends to doubt
it.
Now, Faith,
as I record this message,
you're, uh...
sleeping,
and the doctors tell me
that you might never wake up.
I don't believe that.
Sooner or later,
you will wake up,
and when you do,
you'll find the world has
gone
and changed on you.
I wish I could make the world
a better place
for you to wake up in.
But tough as it is to accept,
we both have to understand
that even my
power
to protect and watch over you
has its limits.
See, the hard
pill
to swallow here
is that once I'm gone...
your days
are just plain numbered.
Now, I know, I know.
You're a... you're a smart
and capable young woman,
in charge of her own life.
But the problem, Faith,
is that, um,
there won't be a place for
you
in the world anymore.
Right now, I bet you're feeling
very much alone.
(sighs)
But you're never alone.
You'll always have me.
And...
you'll always have this.
(chuckles)
Go ahead. Open the box.
Don't worry,
it's not gonna bite.
That's my job.
(laughs)
Go ahead. Open
it.
Surprise!
See, you don't get these
in any gum ball machine.
When you've been around
as long as I
have,
you make friends. And some
of them forge neat little gizmos
like the one
you're holding right now.
And here's the good news--
just because it's over
for my Faith
doesn't mean she can't go out
with a bang.
(chuckles)
BUFFY:
She's a very dangerous woman.
Okay, I get
it,
really. Faith bad.
Do I look like
I'm arguing?
Not yet.
But you always make
that innocent
face
right before you start.
Figured that out, huh?
(chuckles)
Damn. Took Mom 12 years
to catch
that one.
All I'm saying is, if you're
in trouble, I want to help.
You can't.
Give me one reason why.
(groans)
That's one.
Okay.
I'm not exactly Action Guy,
but there's got to be something
I can do
besides sit around here waiting
for you to pummel this gal.
Riley, the fact
that you just called Faith a gal
only proves
that you don't know her.
I've never seen anybody
get under your skin
this way before.
What did she do to you exactly?
It's a long
story.
I'm from
Iowa.
We drive four hours
for a high school football game.
Try me.
I told you, okay?
She hurt me
and... people that I care about.
And did I mention
the psycho killer part?
There's something
you're not telling me.
Riley, I have to go.
She's out there.
All right.
I'm just saying,
I think you're holding out
on me.
Riley,
this isn't a
joke.
Okay, there's a criminally
insane woman out there
with superpowers
who thinks that I'm responsible
for ruining her life.
I know Faith.
She'll come after me,
and she'll come after the people
that I love.
(knocking)
Hi, Joyce.
(thud)
Mind if I come
in?
(clicks tongue)
Ruby Sunset.
Burgundy Skyline?
Harlot.
Mmm. Way to go, Joyce.
Now, normally, I wouldn't be
going with a color this dark,
but I read in some magazine
eight months in a coma
will damage
a girl's natural skin tone.
Good thing pale is in this year.
Or was it last year?
Mwah.
Anyway,
for real now,
I'm gonna ask you something,
and you got to promise
you'll be honest
and not spare my feelings
just 'cause I could kill you.
You promise?
I promise.
Okay.
How do I look?
Psychotic.
Hmm. I was shooting for sultry,
but, hey...
Bet I know what you're thinking.
Really?
You're thinking, "You'll
never get away with this." Warm?
Actually, I was thinking
my daughter
is going to kill you soon.
That a fact?
More like a bet.
Whoa.
You got a pair on you, Joyce.
I like seeing
that
in a woman your age.
Guess you can afford
to talk that way.
I mean, in the world
according to Joyce,
Buffy is gonna come crashing
through that door
any minute.
But...
look what I
found.
Buffy Summers. Buffy Summers.
Buffy Summers.
Buffy, Buffy. A lot of letters.
She, uh, hasn't been by
in a while, huh?
And you'd think, with a crazy
chick like me on the loose--
crazy chick with a wicked grudge
against her, no less--
she'd call
and give you a heads-up.
But Buffy's too into
her own deal
to remember dear old mom.
You don't know the first
thing
about Buffy.
Or me.
Don't I?
I know what it's like.
You think you matter. You think
you're a part of something,
and you get dumped.
It's like the whole world
is moving, but you're stuck.
Like those
animals
in the tar pits.
It's like you just keep sinking
a little deeper every day,
and nobody even sees.
Were you planning
to slit my throat
anytime soon?
Don't tell me
you don't see it, Joyce.
You've served your purpose.
You squirted out the kid,
raised her up,
and now you might
as well be dead.
I mean, nobody cares,
nobody remembers,
especially not Buffy,
fabulous superhero.
Sooner or later, you're
gonna have to face it--
she was over us
a long time ago, Joyce.
Too busy climbing
onto her new boy toy
to give a single thought
to the people that matter!
I mean, you're her mother,
and
she just leaves you here to die!
(grunting)
Hi, Mom.
Hi, honey.
(grunting)
Thought I'd go after
the clean marine,
didn't ya? He's a cutie.
Looks like he could use
a good roll in the sack.
(grunting)
You're not his type.
He's not big on sleaze.
(grunting)
He's probably
just never tried it.
Going for the boyfriend
again?
That's tired.
Just something to remember me by
once I've moved on.
(grunting)
Ever occur to you, Faith,
the reason we all forgot you
is because we wanted to?
(grunting)
Hello, Rupert.
(sirens wailing in distance)
Cops.
(grunting)
(tires
screeching)
(grunting)
(whooshing)
(grunts)
(thud)
You okay?
All things considered.
What is that?
Weapon of some kind.
Didn't work, whatever it was.
(banging on door)
Oh, the police.
She's their problem now.
You sure you're okay?
Five by five.
Grr. Argh.